Visual studio code is open source and free to use,
which makes it a great tool to use in a seminar
like this. But there's also a big community
behind visual studio code, that is developing
new extensions that we can use inside visual
studio. The first thing you might notice is,
after installing visual studio code, it might
not look like the editor i'm using here. And
this is because we can use different themes to
style our editor for us. Through the preferences
you can select different styles, so that it
fits your preference and it is to your liking.
Next up, the activity bar here. This is a
really nice tool to give you quick access to
different views and tools inside visual studio.
Sometimes it does not initially show up. To
make it show up, go to view, appearance
and then then select the show activity bar.
This will give you the bar on the left, so
you have quick access to different views.
The most important one is the one on the top
here. The explorer. This will show you the actual
content of your currently open folder, so you
can actually access different files in the folder
on the right side. You now get the
actual text editor and what is nice,
you can also open multiple files in parallel.
So you can open multiple panes here and,
thereby, for example, compare two files or copy
paste certain things from one file to another.
In addition there are other options like the the
git tool, that i will show you in the next video
and there is the extensions. One extension that
we are using in the seminar is the so-called live
server. If you enter live server in the search
bar up here, it should show you the live server
extension. And once you click on it. It should
show an install button, right here. So after
installing it you get immediate access to it.
You don't need to restart visual studio code to
use it. And if you're looking on your own for
other extensions that might be helpful, always
have in mind that these extensions are developed
by the open source community and some might be
experimental. So if you're not sure, always make
sure that the amount of people that have already
installed this extension is quite big, this makes
sure that there's already a lot of people using
it and so it's probably stable and safe to use.
For most extensions you can also check on GitHub
the actual source code, if you're interested
what this extension is doing on your machine.
So in the next video, when i show you how to set
up a new project, i will also show you how to
use the live server extension. This is a
rough overview of the most important features
of visual studio code and we will now
start creating our own projects and files.